Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Ok, so this lecture, we're going to go from the hard to install,
somewhat hard to customize, but you can do everything CMS systems
towards the new guard, and start looking at the new ones that are more focused
on being a company, raising money, making money,
and making sites that are easier to put together and prettier.
So, this lecture, we're going to look at Shopify.
Now, remember, Shopify was the new guard version of Magento.
Shopify is the one that is built in Ruby on Rails,
and is actually pretty well known for that,
and that actually caused a problem in their ecosystem.
So this is what their website looks like, and you can kind of tell right off the bat,
it doesn't look like something from ten years ago,
such is the case when you look at like WordPress or Drupal.
For the most part, you can tell very quickly that there is a focus on looks,
there is a focus on being a SaaS product, meaning they charge you every month,
and you don't ever download the code for Shopify.
Remember, before, we would download the code for Drupal,
or download the code for WordPress, we'd install it on our web server,
that is not the case with these new CMS systems.
The way these guys work is that they're going to want you
to just sign up and do everything through them.
So we'll just play around with it.
So we'll create a fake account.
See how it's doing everything for me?
I didn't have to navigate through the website and click on something,
and then set up the SQL database, and then install all that.
It's actually quite a bit more simple.
So we'll just fill this one out, and...
what's my business... we don't even need to name it.
All right, so they want you to tell them more about yourself.
Why? Because they want to sell stuff to you.
That's pretty much it.
If you guys... this is a true story, if you actually
fill this out, and say you're selling products,
and you sell over a million dollars a month, someone will magically call you on the phone,
so be careful about that one, if you don't want to talk to someone on the phone.
Yatta, yatta, yatta.
So let's say "enter my store."
Ok, so this is the administration panel for building something in Shopify,
it kind of looks like WordPress, right?
It kind of looks like Drupal, like we have a panel here,
and we just kind of pick stuff on the side,
and that's how we go through this process.
At this point, they kind of stop the 1-2-3-4 step process,
but they are suggesting here that you go down the list.
Add a product, customize the looks, add a customized name,
and you just kind of go all the way down.
Then, over here, it's more of the optional stuff.
You'll notice, again, this is e-commerce,
so what's the first thing right after the home button?
It's the orders.
So they give you a lot of support for handling and figuring out orders.
Anyway, now, let's say I wanted to customize the look and feel of my online store.
Now, they have tons and tons of templates.
For the most part, from what I understand, there are only some free themes,
because, keep in mind, you're paying Shopify every single month to use their service,
so it's a little bit extra if they're going to charge you for a lot of their themes.
And they do, as you noticed, there's some
of these custom ones that are quite expensive.
You noticed with the WordPress, and the Drupal, and Magento,
most of those themes are not very expensive.
But, again, this company makes a lot of money, and that's their main focus,
so they want to make sure that you have whatever
you want to get you started as soon as possible.
Believe it or not, they actually have so many themes
that there is not actually a strong demand within the community that uses Shopify
for modifying in detail the aesthetics of their sites.
What I mean by that is in WordPress, people will download a theme,
and then they'll go and they'll modify the code of their theme to make it just right,
whereas with Shopify, Shopify is just taking upon themselves to create
as many different templates as they possibly can,
so that no one can possibly complain.
Again, like I said before, if you're within a standard use case,
you don't care about using exclusive design,
then these new guard CMS systems are actually pretty helpful.
I mean, as you can see, an example, these are
real live companies that make lots of money,
and this is quite literally a theme you can find on Shopify.
They have set it up pretty much in any way you could possibly think of
because they separate them out by business category.
I don't know if you guys have ever seen my
Growth Marketing course with my co-instructor,
this is actually the company he runs, and he uses Shopify.
I know that he is leaving Shopify soon, because they charge a percentage of sales,
and that is an interesting dynamic, something to keep in mind
when you think about using something like Shopify or SquareSpace.
They're trying to get their hands on more of the money that you make,
so often what ends up happening is that companies that use these services
start off on them, and then they end up paying more money
to create their own platform to get off of these systems.
Why? Because once you start making money it's not worth it
to pay Shopify 5-10% if you're making millions of dollars.
At that point you just pay someone to make your own actual website.
All right, so we'll tinker out a little bit more, and kind of
get a little bit more acquainted with how this system works.
So let's say we're going to customize the look and feel.
I could've bought a theme or downloaded a theme and then installed it,
but for the most part, we're just going to
take one that they have within the system already.
So let's say we're going to make a shop that sells hipster accessories. Great.
All right, so right here, it's going to give me some information about it.
Great, ok, so it says that it's already installed,
which means that I should be able to find it.
So if I went up here and just clicked "customize your theme"
it'll actually show me that theme I just tried to install,
so then I can sell my reclaimed wood benches,
and my retro sunglasses, and leather bound watches.
So right here, it's called the Debut theme, and it's going to divide it into sections.
Again, they try to control a lot of the process, so
you only get to say what you want to put in the header, and the image,
and the featured collection, and they really make sure that
there's only so many things you can change.
And to prove that point, you go and look
at the header, this is what it's talking about.
So I can only modify this in terms of the size,
what it's called, and what it says in some of the text.
So, let's say, if we wanted to put like, the logo in the middle,
ok, cool, left, if we wanted to upload an image, replace my last name there.
Great.
But that is pretty much all you get.
Ok, so let's see if we wanted to install a different theme.
All right, so we go back here, let's see another free one,
sorry, I'm cheap, but I don't want to pay for these.
Let's use Jumpstart.
Great, ok. Built for small inventory, slideshow, goal tracking tool.
"As seen on" section, interesting.
All right, so we'll install it.
Right, so what I have to do is I have to go to this part, hit "publish"
and that's going to put it on my actual website.
Then I go to "customize" and here I should be able to see it.
Ok, so it's the Jumpstart theme,
and here you go.
It allows me to put a video right there, in the center,
I can put a thumbnail for what's back here, put the text,
and then I need to link to YouTube, or Vimeo.
Now, in WordPress, if you were going to
do that, it would be a whole different thing.
You'd have to upload the file to your server,
you'd have to point the thing in the right direction,
you'd have to put a direct URL, an image.
Here, it's just a box you put in, so much, much more simple,
but again, if you had to modify something beyond the obvious points,
well, you wouldn't have a lot of options.
So let's say that, you know, maybe we wanted
to modify some of these individual sections,
notice how it's set up in a long form page design,
so essentially each section is something I can modify,
you'll notice this when you go over here.
Talk about your brand, ok, well, talk about your brand is there, right?
And then, let's see.
So text columns with icons, that's how I change that one.
Let's say we wanted to change "talk about your brand,"
let's say that I wanted to change it...
Hm, let's see, we can put it bold,
you can kind of play around with it.
Shopify costs too much money.
Show you how I really feel, and yeah.
So you kind of get the gist of it.
If I wanted to delete that section, I can delete that section.
Ok.
So let's leave this disaster we've created and go back.
All right, now, remember how I mentioned that Shopify can't handle blog posts
because most stores aren't going to have blogs anyway.
So here's a good example, they have a section
on the online store called blog post,
and you can create a blog post, and it's going to look similar-ish to WordPress,
not as much creative control again.
God, I have a featured image, a featured image is
that first image you see when you load the page,
if you don't want that, oops, sorry,
and then the rest of it is just kind of here.
How do you change the theme for this?
Well, that's actually dictated by the theme we installed before in the store.
Yeah, anyway.
One other thing worth pointing out is that
with Shopify, again, you have to use their domain,
so this would be kimbrell.shopify.com if I wanted to access it,
unless I wanted to pay more money and buy a new domain.
So I'd have to buy it through them, or add it this way,
either case, I'm going to have to pay money and set that up.
So, if you are out there just testing something, you can do it from the .shopify.com,
but otherwise you're going to have to pay money and use the custom domain.
This is a common theme you'll see with new CMS systems.
All right guys, I've exhausted pretty much
everything I wanted to say about Shopify,
check it out on your own, Shopify.com,
it's used for e-commerce stores, if you're trying to do something quick,
and you have stuff to sell, and you don't want to have to handle maintenance,
and installing all these crazy custom themes,
or go through what we went through with Drupal,
then Shopify is probably the answer.
Just keep in mind, they're going to take a percentage of your sales,
so once you have some success, you're
probably going to have to move off of them.
All right guys, see you in the next lecture!